---+ Accessing SWI-Prolog source via [[GIT][http://git-scm.com/]]

GIT is a Fast Version Control System developed by Linus Torvalds and
currently maintained by Junio C Hamano. The SWI-Prolog project moved
from CVS to GIT because

    * CVS started to become too slow
    * CVS doesn't support staging very well. I like frequent commits to
    synchronise between machines, commit work that is known to be
    incomplete, etc. For GIT this is the natural model, for CVS it is
    just too cumbersome.
    * GIT allows for offline working.
    * GIT checkouts are totally stand alone, making local branches much
    easier as well as providing security against system failure, etc. 

The complete CVS history since 1993 has been included in the GIT repository.
Public access to the SWI-Prolog GIT repository

If you want to keep in touch with the most recent version, or you want
to maintain a modified version, access to the SWI-Prolog GIT repository
can make your life a lot easier. Web access Access through your WWW
browser

We provide browsing access through the web using GITweb. With any
browser you can examine the version history of files, retrieve any
version of a file and produce difference listings between arbitrary
versions. Access using GIT

First install GIT for your platform. You need at least version 1.5.5
because the SWI-Prolog repository uses the GIT submodule features. Many
modern Unix versions come with GIT installed. If your version is too
old, installing a new version from source is simple. On MS-Windows we
use msysGit, which is easily installed and except for being much slower
than its Unix counterpart appears to do the job flawlessly.

With GIT installed, you can clone the repository from one of the
addresses below. Please use the git:// access if you can as it is much
faster. The HTTP gateway provides you with access if a proxy or firewall
denies direct internet access to the git port (9418).

    * http://prolog.cs.vu.nl/home/pl/git/pl.git
    * git://prolog.cs.vu.nl/home/pl/git/pl.git 

Initial checkout is achieved using the command below, which creates a
directory pl below the current directory. The download does not contain
generated documention and configuration files, neither the required
stand-alone submodules. Use the ./prepare script to fetch these. This
script also runs on Windows using the bash-shell that comes with
msysGit. In msysGit it cannot create the configure scripts, but this
warning is harmless as configure is not used on Windows.

==
% git clone git://prolog.cs.vu.nl/home/pl/git/pl.git
% cd pl
% ./prepare
==

Next, consult the file INSTALL for further instructions for installing SWI-Prolog from source. You can update to the latest version using

==
% git pull
% ./prepare
==

---++ Access using CVS (ONLY for cvs diff to find local modifications)

As of august 15, 2008, CVS access to the SWI-Prolog repository is
discontinued due to the use of git modules which are poorly supported by
the GIT CVS frontend. For some time we will maintain CVS access to the
no longer updated united GIT/CVS repository below to allow CVS users to
generate patch-sets and migrate to GIT.

==
% cvs -d :pserver:anonymous@gollem.science.uva.nl:2402/pl.git co master
==
